it's so easy to claim that you are on  the right side of history  and that your political opponents are on  the wrong side of history and then we  can try to bully and motivate one  another by saying oh you want to be on  the right side of history don't you you  want to be like gandhi you want to be  like martin luther king you don't want  to be like those terrible people who  kept supporting slavery when it was  doomed  but our claims about being on the right  side of history are based on mythology  [Music]  i'm inviting you to join a discussion  just one hour from now 10 p.m in london  england 4 p.m in new york city saturday  january 27 2022 inviting you to join me  in a live stream discussion  about one of the most important myths  in our times a myth that is dangerous  precisely because people do not regard  it as mythology people do not scrutinize  it as propaganda people don't question  its origins or its purposes  if you believe in the theory of public  protest producing democracy  why does it go so horribly wrong in  practice  again and again and again  simply  but seriously  what actually happened in myanmar and  why doesn't that challenge our  preconceptions  about protest and democracy  even here at home  belarus  look back at the last 10 years look at  the next 10 years what actually happened  in belarus and what do you believe  is going to happen next and if you  believe in  this model of democracy if you believe  in this model of public protest why  haven't you bought an airplane ticket to  myanmar why haven't you bought an  airplane ticket to belarus what if you  had a wife or a girlfriend who was  belarusian would you be trying to help  her escape from belarus or would you be  going over there to join in the  revolution and be part of this democracy  that's supposedly going to result from  these street protests  what actually happened  in hong kong looking back at the last 10  years and looking ahead to the next 10  years  what actually happened as a consequence  of the so-called arab spring  and imagine how depressing it would be  if i showed you a slide for each one of  these countries in this list  libya  egypt  yemen  syria  bahrain what really do you believe about  public protest street protest  so-called activism and democracy  what actually happened  in france  what were the real  outcomes of the chilejones  of their protests and yeah of their  riots  what actually happened  in the united states of america what  actually happened in seattle what  actually happened in  portland oregon we all lived through  this there's no way you could have  ignored it it's possible to ignore  myanmar it's possible to ignore belarus  don't do it don't let yourself ignore it  it's so easy to claim  that you are on the right side of  history  and that your political opponents are on  the wrong side of history and then we  can try to bully and motivate one  another by saying oh you want to be on  the right side of history don't you you  want to be like gandhi you want to be  like martin luther king you don't want  to be like those terrible people who  kept supporting slavery when it was  doomed  but our claims about being on the right  side of history are based on mythology  are based on half truths and outright  lies that we tell ourselves about  history it's based on a kind of  propaganda that is not scientifically  falsifiable  and i think it is not a coincidence that  the most powerful and influential voices  in politics have harnessed this  mythology and have raised millions of  dollars whether you're looking at wayne  syong at direct action everywhere  whether you're looking at roger hallam  and extinction rebellion or over a  longer period of time and a larger scale  the so-called effective altruism  movement look at how many millions of  dollars some sources claim more than one  billion dollars have been raised in  donations just by that third example  we're living through a period of time  in which people are intoxicated by  a fundamentally fatuous notion  that they  are on the right side of history and  that a certain skewed interpretation of  historical facts  proves that there is one and only one  route  to political progress to achieving  democracy or achieving some kind of  socialist utopia but mysteriously that  one root that one methodology  that they claim history proves is  infallible  it fails again and again and again and  whether you are looking at myanmar or  you are looking at belarus or you are  looking at seattle and portland within  the united states of america or you were  looking at the chilejone in paris france  it's still failing right now  in about one hour please join me  for this discussion  [Music]  but what you don't see is  the nights where i cry myself to sleep  or  the intense loneliness that i feel or  times where i just feel like giving up i  am struggling and really what what you  see online is  not  i i mean i don't want to say it's not  real because it's still me it's  authentic i i never lie in what i put  online but of course i only show the  good parts